Well let's get these arms moving back and forth.
Generally speaking the arms are going to be doing the opposite of what the legs are.
So if the left leg is forward then the left arm is going to be back.
So let's begin with our contact poses here at frames 1 and 7.
And let's place our arms where we think they should be.
The thing about inverse kinematics or I.K. arms is that we're going to have to be mindful of making
sure that our arms and hands are giving us nice arcs or curves.
They can have a tendency to look like a train piston going back and forth like this rather than giving
us nice arcs.
So we need to be mindful of that.
All right.
So here is our first contact position.
Let me go to the side view here the orthographic view and sense our left leg is forward like this here.
Let's make sure that our left arm is back and I need to move that in a bit and bring that down some.
So he's kind of maybe going to swing like that.
Let's bring that hammer down a bit.
All right so now let's take this arm the right arm and move that forward a bit.
I'll bring it in.
Rotate that up a bit so the hand is more in line with the shield for now.
That looks painful.
Now I think I will go ahead and use this elbow control because that will help me move the shield to
where I want it to be.
Kind of like that.
Go ahead and move the elbow control over just a bit to line that elbow up.
Maybe I want to swing that hammer out just a bit so it doesn't hit him as it passes.
So now that we've got our hands or our arms in place for our first contact position let's go ahead and
select these hands.
And also the elbow controls.
I dealt with those two created key frames for those.
And let's now come over here to the dope sheet and find those key frames so here we go we've got them
here.
The elbow targets down here and we've got to hand I.K. up here.
So I want to go ahead and select these key frames those two there and these two here.
Now for testing purposes I've reduced my frame range to 12.
Let me get that back up to 13 here.
There we go.
So that includes that 13th key frame here.
And what I'll do is just duplicate these and move them over to frame 13 saw press shift D and then just
move the mouse all the way over to frame 13 and click.
And now we should have those arms in place in the same way on both 13 and 1 OK.
Good.
So now we need to do the same thing on frame 7 except just the opposite of frame 1.
So let's see if our copy and paste mirror will work for these as well.
We were able to use it on the legs.
Let's see if we can use it on the arms too.
I'm going to scroll over here and find these buttons right here.
So with these selected Now I've got the hands and the elbows at frame 1.
I'm going to go ahead and copy this and then I'm going to move up to frame 7 and let's paste here right
here and see what happens.
Yeah that's not too bad.
Now the hammer is in a bit of an awkward position but that's OK.
Let's just go out and play this and see how it looks
oh boy there he goes.
So that's not too bad actually it looks like he's pounding himself in the head with the hammer but that's
OK.
We can fix that.
Right.
So what we've got is frame one here and then frame seven there and back to frame 13 here.
So we've got some strangeness happening all through here.
And that's because we've got all these extra key frames in here.
Well we can do is really get rid of just about all of these for the hands and the elbows.
I think what I'll do is just come through in the dope sheet and just get rid of these and they're just
going to be fighting against us as we go.
So here's these key frames on frame five.
These are for the hand.
I think we can just hit X and delete keyframes.
Let's come over here to frame 8.
Here's the hands and elbows down here and it looks like we can go all the way to frame 13 because here's
the keyframes we just pasted.
So I think what I'll do is just hit the Beaky and border select all of these and then the B key and
border select all of these here.
And I don't need those.
So I'll just hit X and delete.
So now we have just hopefully what we need.
The contact positions at 1 7 and 13.
Now notice what I mean about that kind of piston movement here.
Let me go back to the side view as it goes from frame to frame 7.
Notice that the I.K. handles just go in and exact straight line and that's going to be a problem we
need to ensure that there's the nice curves there.
Let's go back to frame for here and let's think about where the arms need to be here.
We're coming from this position right here.
And the hands need to Looks like they need to come down a bit and pass each other the way the legs do.
So the left leg still in front here.
This is the front leg but it's past and moving toward the back.
We now want the left hand.
Let me move back over here and turn off the gizmo real quick.
We want this left hand to be passing probably right around in here and it will want the right hand over
here.
Probably be passing.
I don't know down in here as well like that.
Let's come around to the front and see how they look.
That's not too bad.
So let's go with that.
Let's say that's what we want there.
So we really want the opposite of this at frame 10 right.
So if we copy this and scroll back over copy these two hand I.K. handles at frame for and then move
over to frame 10 pace the opposite see how that works.
All right so many hit play and see how we're doing.
And there he goes look not too bad.
All right so let's take a look at a couple of other key frames here.
How about let's take a look at frame two here.
These are still too high.
These should probably come down just a bit.
So I'm just going to take these and move them down just a hair like this maybe back a bit and move this
down just a bit as well doesn't need to be quite that high.
I'm going to deal with the hand rotation on the shield here in just a bit but I'm going to move that
down some like that.
And once again let's try and paste this at frame 8.
So I'll select these copy moved frame 8 paste.
OK so that moves those down just a bit.
That's good.
Let's see how we did yeah.
So we've got frame 1 and 2 3 4.
Looks like we could do something on three I think.
These could be quite a bit farther down.
I'll just move them kind of straight just move them kind of straight down like this.
It kind of passes the body a little bit lower.
Maybe something like that.
And once again we can copy the cell copy these at frame three moved frame nine paste.
Let's take a look at frame five.
That's actually not too bad.
I don't mind that have a frame 6 yeah.
I'm OK with that.
Let's take a look at these over here.
Frame 11 and frame 12.
Yeah I can live with that.
Let's test it out.
There he goes.
Look at him go.
All right.
So now we've got a basic run cycle even though that's looking pretty good there's still some work to
be done with the rotation of the hand and the placement of the elbows.
And in addition I'd like to go back and take a look at some of these curves if we go back and take a
look at I don't know let's take a look at one of these feet.
How about the left foot here.
And if we look at the curves for the left foot we can see that they're not beautiful in that.
Take a look at this curve right here
this X rotation right here.
If we look at this we can see there these blips in the curves like one right here.
And this is going to be a place where if you look at the foot right here see how it's kind of glitching
out a little bit right between these keyframes right there and right there how it kind of flips back.
We want to go in and work on those because those can really affect how we perceive the animation There's
one over here to take a look at this one.
So there's one there there's one here.
Anywhere you see these sharp breaks these sharp reversal of direction on a curve.
We really want these to be nice smooth arcs nice smooth curves if at all if at all possible.
So what I'd like to do in the next video is to go through and begin to kind of clean these up and see
if we can make the animation a little bit smoother and a little more pleasing.
So we'll work on that in the next video.